thank you very much everyone thank you
progress being made and I appreciate you
all joining us last night the FDA
announced groundbreaking new policies to
further increase testing ver-very
substantially so all states can now
authorize tests developed and used
within their borders in addition to the
FDA so the states are very much involved
they have been involved from the
beginning but we're stepping it up as
much as we can and the testing
procedures are going well and within a
short period of time all of the private
labs will kick in this never been done
before
and it's it's gonna be something very I
think it's going to be incredible if
it's done properly and these are great
companies these are among the greatest
companies in the world actually so the
state's going to be dealing through
themselves and with local government and
local physicians local everybody they're
also dealing with us but we have a
tremendous testing capacity today we're
also announcing a dramatic expansion of
our Medicare telehealth services
Medicare patients can now visit any
doctor by phone or video conference at
no additional cost including with
commonly used services like FaceTime and
Skype a historic breakthrough this has
not been done before either
in addition states of the authority to
cover telehealth services for their
medical patients and by doing this the
patient is not seeing the doctor per se
but they're seeing the doctor so there's
no getting closed during this time we
will not enforce applicable HIPAA
penalties so the doctors can greatly
expand care for their patients using
telehealth so the penalties won't be
enforced we encourage everyone to
maximize use of telehealth
to limit exposure to the virus it's been
a very successful method of
communication but never used on a on a
scale like we're going to use at
telehealth and you'll be able to also
better maintain hospital capacity by
doing this
earlier this morning I spoke with
executives from America's fast food
industry Wendy's McDonald's all of the
the big ones Burger King and they were
great we're talking about the pickups in
light of yesterday's guidance you heard
to avoid eating or drinking at bars
restaurants or public food courts we
discussed the important role that the
drive-thru pickup and delivery service
can play in the weeks ahead so that's
happening and they have been fantastic
they have been absolutely fantastic and
they've been doing it already but
they're keeping it open and smaller
staffs very capable people and very
capable companies and they're doing it
pick ups our guidance yesterday urges
Americans to take action for 15 days to
help stem the outbreak so it's a 15-day
period I guess now would say it's a
14-day period 15 days from yesterday and
we're asking everyone to work at home a
possible postpone unnecessary travel and
limit social gatherings to no more than
10 people by making shared sacrifices
and temporary changes we can protect the
health of our people and we can protect
our economy because I think our economy
will come back very rapidly so it's 15
days from yesterday we'll see what
happens after that if we do this right
our country and the world frankly but
our country can be rolling again pretty
quickly pretty quickly we have to fight
that invisible enemy that I guess
unknown but we're getting to know it a
lot better today the Senate is taken up
coronavirus legislation that includes
free testing for those who need it as
well as paid sick leave and family
medical leave for work is affected by
the virus we're also committed to
getting small businesses a support that
they need in fact one of the things we
talked about with the fast-food
operations we spoke to the chairman and
CEOs of all of the companies but one of
the things we discussed is exactly that
getting small businesses support and
flexibility that they need for
themselves and for their workers and
that's being worked on
right now at my direction secretary
minuchin is meeting today with senators
on additional stimulus packages I can
tell you who's meeting with them late
until the night last night and for a big
part of the day yesterday and tremendous
things are happening there's great
spirit tremendous spirit and I can say
that for Republicans and Democrats I can
say that with respect to Governor Cuomo
we had a great talk this morning we're
both doing a really good job and we're
coordinating it and we agree you know
different states need different things
and we we agree on that a hundred
percent but with a very good talk and I
think we're right down the same track
and it's going to be very successful New
York has a pretty big problem I guess
would be the number one hotspot that's
no fault of anybody it's just the way it
is but we're working very closely
together we're also getting FEMA very
much involved they've been involved but
now we're getting them to a different
level and we'll have everything ready
we're dealing with the Army Corps of
Engineers should that be necessary we
have them working in some cases on
standby in other cases but my
conversation with Andrew Cuomo was a
very very productive one and a very good
one I appreciate that we're giving
relief to affected industries and small
businesses and we're ensuring that we
emerge from this challenge with the
prosperous and growing economy because
that's what's going to happen it's going
to pop one day we'll be standing
possibly up here we'll say well we won
and we're going to say that sure as
you're sitting there we're gonna say
that and we're going to win and I think
we're going to win faster than people
think I hope later today I'll meet with
the leaders from determined tourism
industry as well as industrial supply
retailers and wholesalers to discuss
their critical roles as you know I met
with the department store people all of
the retailers the big ones including
Walmart and others and it was great
meeting they're stocking up their stores
like they have never stopped them before
we're trying to get people to actually
buy less if that's possible buy less
don't take everything just buy what you
need for
while it's they're gonna stay open all
hours of the day and they've really been
they've been fantastic we're taking
aggressive action now as one nation and
one family so that America can rebound
stronger frankly stronger than ever
before and we recognize that while many
American workers can work from home many
others cannot many of our health care
providers first responders and men and
women into the food service and
manufacturing are showing that they're
showing up and standing up to provide us
with the goods and services we need so
we want people to stay home where they
can but many cases when you talk about
food service and manufacturing certain
items in particular they are they're
going in and they're practicing all of
the safety rules and regulations that we
talk about so with that I'd like to just
introduce our great vice president Mike
Pence he'll say a few words and then
I'll make some other introductions thank
you very much Thank You mr. president
and a good morning it should be very
clear to the American people that
President Trump has initiated not only a
whole-of-government approach but a whole
of America approach and the president's
interaction even today and through the
course of this day with leaders in
industry around the country reflects
that we're not only bringing the full
weight of the federal government to bear
but the full way of the American economy
and I know I speak on behalf of the
president when I say how inspired we are
at the way the American people have
stepped up in the way that American
businesses large and small have stepped
up this truly been inspiring our task
force met this morning and we continue
to focus on president Trump's priorities
of testing prevention and supplies and
in that category I'm pleased to report
that that while testing is available in
all 50 states as the president just
indicated through the swift action of
the FDA at the encouragement of
governors around the country now state
health authorities can authorize labs in
their state and expand existing testing
capabilities but also in connection with
the FDA's action which you'll hear more
about in a moment we
have continued to expand the public and
private partnership that the president
forged with vast commercial laboratories
around the country increasing access to
the high volume of high throughput
coronavirus testing that is that is
greatly expanding access even as we
speak
also our task force received a report
this morning on the progress that the US
Public Health Service and FEMA are
making working closely with state
governments and also partners in the
private sector like CVS Target Walgreens
and Walmart to expand remote testing
sites around the country and we'll have
a full report later this week as those
come online it's important the American
people understand the testing is
happening all over the country but all
of our health experts wanted me to tell
the American people you don't need the
results of testing to know what you
should do and president Trump's 15 day
coronavirus guidelines our advice for
every American in every community
they're the result of the best guidance
of CDC and our health experts and as the
president said we continue to urge every
American over the next 15 days to put
into practice the principles in the
president's coronavirus guidelines by
every American practicing these
principles we believe that we can slow
the spread of the corona virus in fact
our experts have told our Task Force
that if every American acts on the
president's coronavirus guidelines we
could see a substantial reduction in the
spread of the corona virus but as the
president said it will take all of us to
do it so if you feel sick stay home if
someone in your house tests positive
keep the entire household home
especially if you're a person with an
underlying health condition we urge you
to stay home and practice social
distancing from people though social
gatherings of more than 10 people use
drive-through as the president discussed
with leaders in the industry today and
every American especially practicing
common sense and good hygiene for the
American people as a
the risk of serious illness remains low
but we're asking every American to
partner with us in this effort to slow
the spread of the virus and especially
to be mindful of seniors or others with
serious underlying health conditions for
whom the threat of the corona virus can
be very significant and very real as I
said the president has continued to push
our task force to bring a
whole-of-government a whole of America
approach and we continue to be inspired
the way our nation's governors and
nation's businesses are responding we
spoke just yesterday with the leaders of
every broadcast network in America that
will soon be unveiling a public service
campaign using CDC guidelines and
specifically as we work on the issue of
supplies meetings yesterday with
Department of Defense officials about
excess supplies the president and I will
be meeting today to speak about the
supply chain for hospitals we would make
one specific request and that is we
would urge construction companies to
donate their inventory of n95 mass to
your local hospital and forgo additional
orders of those industrial masks because
of what the president asked to be
included in legislation moving through
the Congress today those industrial
masks that they use on construction
sites are perfectly acceptable for
health care workers to be protected from
a respiratory disease but we're asking
construction companies that our
president knows very well from his
background
we're asking them to donate there in 95
mass to their local hospitals and also
forego making additional orders it's the
president's direction we will we will
continue to do whatever it takes we'll
continue to marshal the best of the
American people the best of all the
people behind me the people behind them
our state and local officials and we
will get through this and we will get
through this together Thank You mr.
I want to thank Chad Wolfe and Homeland
Security the job they did at the
airports was really incredible they
screened thousands and thousands of
people O'Hare got backed up but a little
bit but they got him out and but
everybody was screened and screened very
carefully they didn't want to rush it
there was 13 airports and it was it was
an incredible thing then they had a big
surge also from the UK and Ireland and
that went very smoothly but they did a
fantastic job they work long hours and
they did a fantastic job I'd like to
introduce Steve minuchin and then I'm
going to ask Steve to leave because he's
going to the hill he's been working very
hard with the Senate and with actually
with the house on a very very big bold
package it's gonna be big and it's gonna
be bold and the level again of
enthusiasm to get something done I don't
think I've ever seen anything quite like
it so state minuchin please Thank You
mr. president I'd like to announce some
very significant actions that the
president has approved today the first I
would say is earlier today I sent a
letter to Fed Chairman Powell approving
his request to use 13-3 and what that
will do is the Fed will be setting up a
special purpose vehicle which the
Treasury will invest 10 billion dollars
in from one of our funds that will
enable the Fed to guarantee the purchase
of a 1p one commercial paper going
forward that is a one trillion dollar
market and is critical to American
workers it's critical to American
business and it's in critical to
American savers who have a lot of that
money in money market funds so we heard
loud and clear there will look quiddity
issues this is very significant and will
create I don't think we'll need to use
it all but we have the ability to have
the Fed purchase up to one trillion
dollars of commercial paper is needed
that has already created significant
stability in the market today the second
thing I would say is you know we
previously talked about
deferring IRS payments the president
earlier this morning authorized me to
announce this program I have previously
announced we would defer 200 billion the
president suggested we increased that to
300 billion which will we will be doing
now let me just be clear on the
specifics we encourage those Americans
who can file their taxes to continue to
file their taxes on April 15th because
for many Americans you will get tax
refunds and we don't want you to lose
out on those tax refunds we want you to
make sure you get them many people do
this electronically which is easy for
them and easy for the IRS if you owe a
payment to the IRS you can defer up to a
million dollars as an individual and the
reason why we're doing a million dollars
is that covers lots of pass throughs and
small businesses and ten million dollars
to corporations interest-free and
penalty free for 90 days all you have to
do is file your taxes you'll
automatically not get charged interest
in penalties now of course any American
has the right to extend their taxes
we're not taking that our right but the
president has asked us to go up to 300
billion dollars that's also an enormous
amount of liquidity in the system the
third thing is the President and I
worked on a very significant economic
stimulus plan thank you for being
available last night and throughout this
morning and I will be presenting that to
the Republicans in the Senate this
morning and also discussing that with
the house we look forward to having
bipartisan support we're now working
with the Senate to pass this legislation
very quickly and these will be payments
to small businesses we've talked about
loan guarantees so two critical
industries such as Airlines and hotels
and we've also talked about a stimulus
package to the American worker you can
think of this as something like business
interruption payments for the American
workers thank you you have
questions for the secretary of the
Treasury package for American workers do
you mean direct payments to Americans
are you talking about a payroll tax
holiday although the president likes the
idea that the payroll tax holiday I will
tell you what we've heard for many
people and the president has said we can
consider this the payroll tax holiday
would get people money over the next six
to eight months we're looking at sending
checks to Americans immediately and what
we've heard from hardworking Americans
many companies have now shut down
whether it's bars or restaurants
Americans need cash now and the
president wants to get cash now and I
mean now in the next two weeks I will be
previewing that with the Republicans
there's some numbers out there they may
be a little bit bigger than what's in
the process what help are you gonna give
two airlines
we've had discussions with all the
airline CEOs this week the airline CEOs
have had conversations with the Senate
and the house as the president said I
was up with a subset of the Republican
senators last night I've discussed that
with them I think as you know this is
worse than 9/11 for the airline industry
this is they are almost ground to a halt
the president wants to make sure that
although we don't want people to travel
unless it's critical we want to maintain
four critical travel the right to have
domestic travel I'm not going to comment
on the specifics I will tell you we're
very focused there's a lot of workers
this is strategically important to us
and we'll be working with Congress on
the airline industry we'll be in good
shape
go ahead thousand dollars tax to every
American increasing support among
Republicans and some Democrats for that
would you support that going to everyone
or would you support some sort of income
restriction on who gets a check well I
think it's clear we don't need to send
people who make a million dollars a year
checks okay but we like that's one of
the ideas we like we're going to preview
that today and then we'll be talking
about details afterwards
I think we're going to do something that
gets money to them as quickly as
possible that may not be an accurate way
of doing it because obviously some
people shouldn't be getting checks for
$1,000 and we'll have a pretty good idea
by the end of the day what we're going
to be doing how was the mechanics of
this work and we've been talking about a
payroll tax holiday some 500 billion
dollars worth was floated to me today
because so how would this idea of
sending people to check work would you
would that be sort of an advance on what
they would pay we want to make sure
Americans get money in their pockets
quickly we want to make sure small
business owners have access to funds we
want to make sure that hotels airlines
we have an entire package will be laying
out those details later today yeah I
have to say this there are four
different ways you can do it that's
before you can hear me well enough a
magic okay people at home those are very
important people come to thank
especially your people look we have four
or five ways we can do it four ways in
particular I think there's a fifth
possibility but there are some very good
ways of getting the money out and
getting it out quickly payroll tax is
one way but it does come over a period
of months many months and we want to do
something much faster than that so I
think we have ways of getting money out
pretty quickly and very accurately we
have to do this now so this is now week
we are gonna work with the Senate who's
in session right now actively we will
continue to have conversations with the
house I've already spoken to speaker
Pelosi once today this is stuff that
needs to be done now the president has
instructed me that this is no fault to
American workers for medical reasons we
are shutting down parts of this economy
and we're going to use all the tools we
have as I've said and what tools we
don't have we're going back to Congress
billion dollars to those who might be
concerned that's to it we don't want to
talk about it but it's a substantial
number we're going big the expression we
could do it two ways we could keep going
back every day or every week we're going
big and that's where Mitch McConnell
that's the way he wants to go that's the
way I want to go I think we want to get
it done and have a big infusion as
opposed to going through little meetings
every every couple of days we don't want
to do it that way we want to go big go
solid the country is very strong we've
never been so strong and that's what
we're going to be doing we don't want
with this invisible enemy we don't want
airlines going out of business we don't
want people losing their jobs they're
not having money to live when they were
doing very well just four weeks ago so
we're going big and that's the way it'll
be
and that's the way everybody seems to
like it on the hill any other question
restaurants today was any type of
emergency assistance discussed on that
call a lot of restaurants have to close
even if they arguing delivery they're
not making as much money as they would
with a full house let me make two
comments on on the restaurants and the
president understands this this was
emphasized this morning first of all we
want to make sure that the states allow
the drive-thru portion of these fast
foods to stay open particularly in a
time period where we're telling people
don't go to restaurants these companies
feed a big part of America and I expect
they're gonna feed a bigger part of
America the second thing they asked me
to emphasize I wasn't going to do it now
but as long as you asked many of these
companies have apps you can order ahead
of time that way when you get there it's
as simple as they'll have it packed that
can give it to you as social distancing
and it'll be very fast so we expect that
they will be able to feed a large part
of the population and in regards to
support I will say a lot of these
businesses are small businesses or
companies franchisees 500 or less and we
have a specific program we'll be
unveiling that helps all businesses
small and medium-sized businesses of 500
and last six
question regarding of Marriott
corporation and announced that it is
furloughing thousands of individuals
because of the impacts of the
coronavirus rule your legislation those
individuals I hope so that's one of the
reasons why we got to act very quickly
because we understand whether it's the
airlines hotels for good reasons to
protect the United States on medical
issues these businesses are shut down
and the president wants to make sure as
I've said we will use all the powers we
have you saw this today trillion dollars
of potential liquidity into the market
and the powers we don't have we're going
to Congress and I will say there's a lot
of bipartisan support for these issues
so I'm going to apologize because I have
to go deal with some other I do want to
comment on this okay we absolutely
believe in keeping the markets open okay
Americans need to know they have access
to their money after September 11th the
only reason why the markets were closed
was because the technology was disrupted
I've been on the phone with the major
banks with the New York Stock Exchange
everybody wants to keep it open we may
get to a point where we shorten the
hours if that's something they need to
do but Americans should know that we are
going to do everything to make sure that
they have access to their money at their
banks to the money in their 401ks and to
the money in stocks so I want to just be
very clear we intend to keep the markets
open and the banks are record-setting
strong so we have we have that which is
a much different event than what we had
not so long ago
mr. president you mentioned the Army
Corps of Engineers one of the
conversation with Governor Cuomo people
leaves that New York is going to run out
of hospital beds are you prepared to
mobilize the R&S to increase capacity
yes we're starting to we're studying the
process and it's a process we hope it's
not going to be necessary but it could
be necessary the state is working on it
very hard themselves but we'll probably
supplement what they're doing and even
given that many of the precursors for
our pharmaceuticals come from China and
there have been destroyed us there have
been supply disruptions that supply
chain has been broken to some degree do
you expect that we could run into a
shortage of prescription drugs no I
don't see that at all and I think jen
has every incentive to make sure that
things work well Jonah wants to make
sure that things work very well they
have every incentive to do so Jen the
governor of Ohio has called off the
election that was supposed to happen
today the primary election do you agree
with that decision and what steps are
you taking to ensure that elections
going forward if this pandemic I
continues that elections will be able to
happen including the course that they
won on the fall well the governor I was
doing a great job he called that off and
we'll see what happens there's a court
case and it hasn't been fully determined
yet but if he called it off I could
understand that because you know he's
definitely somebody that knows what he's
doing we'll be seeing what very soon you
know they're going by the rule of 10 as
opposed to 50 and it's pretty tough I
would say probably you could violate
that if you wanted to for an election I
just think an election is a very special
thing he's going to chose he chose a
different date I think a date sometime
in June but that would be a decision
that would be made by him he felt it was
necessary the courts are somebody's
challenging it so the courts will
ultimately decide we're still in this
situation
from now two months what I'm doing Jones
very simple we're getting rid of this
virus that's what we're doing that's the
best thing we can do by the way for the
markets for everything is very simple
very simple solution we want to get rid
of it we want to have very as few deaths
as possible this is a horrible thing you
look at what's going on with Italy we
don't want to be in a position like that
but a much larger because we're a much
larger country we don't want to be there
and I think we've done really well I
think we've done well I think the states
have done well we're all working
together the best thing we can do is get
rid of the virus once that's gone it's
gonna pop back like nobody's ever seen
before that's my opinion but I think
it'll pop back like nobody has ever seen
before please facilities the Army Corps
of Engineers build and also what
specific measures are you taking to try
to increase the number of ventilators in
this life we've ordered massive numbers
of ventilators we have by any normal
standards we have a lot of respirators
ventilators we have tremendous amounts
of equipment but compared to what we're
talking about here this has never been
done before
and yesterday I gave the governor is the
right to go order directly if they want
if they feel they can do it faster then
going through the federal government now
we've knocked out all of the bureaucracy
it's very direct but it's still always
faster to order directly and I gave them
that was totally misinterpreted by the
New York Times on purpose unfortunately
but the the but it's very important yes
please a president directed us to work
with the Department of Defense there's
two ways that DoD can be helpful in
terms of expanding medical capacity I
know the governor of New York has asked
us to look at the Army Corps of engineer
which could perhaps renovate existing
buildings but the president also has us
inventory alike an be deployed very
quickly we spoke with a Governor Inslee
yesterday in Washington State we have
resources in that part of the country
that we can move and as governor's make
these requests we will process them
bring them to the president but there
are two different lanes that VOD can
provide in addition to many men
Oh supplies to augment our national
reserves and the president has tasked us
to to evaluate and make available and to
consider every every request from
governor's for either field hospitals
expanding facilities or the Army Corps
of engineer that could retrofit existing
buildings
the Army Corps is very prepared to do as
we say and we're looking at where it's
going but and they do call them mash
hospitals but the field hospitals go
very quickly there we have them we have
all of this equipment in stock and we're
looking at different sites and a few
different locations and we're not going
to need them and West Virginia where so
far I guess they have none still none
still none right West Virginia Big Jim
the governor's you must be doing a good
job
that's what's reported reporting issue
or is that that they have no cases well
that's all good I just see West Virginia
is the only one that has no cases so
obviously that's being treated
differently than in New York or or
California different parts of California
I do say this so the the Army Corps of
Engineers is ready willing and able we
have to give them the go-ahead if we
find that it's going to be necessary we
think we can have quite a few units up
very rapidly I'm going to work with
Governor Cuomo I'm going to work with a
number of the governor's governor Newsom
has been very generous in his in his
words and I'm being generous to him too
because we're all working together very
well and and I think a lot a lot of very
positive things have taken place we're
talking to California about different
sites but we can we can have a lot of
units up fairly quickly if we think we
need them I think what I'll do is I
might ask Seema to say a few words on
the telehealth and then we can get back
to this place
Seema Thank You mr. president
and as the president announced earlier
we are doing a dramatic expansion of
what's known as telehealth for our 62
million Medicare beneficiaries who are
amongst the most vulnerable to the
corona virus
and we're acting in accord with the
appropriations bill that was signed on
March 6 as well as the president's
emergency declaration last week and this
action is a part of our broader effort
to ensure that government requirements
rules and regulations don't get in the
way of patient care during an emergency
and today's announcement builds on the
significant progress of the president
has already made over the past three
years around telehealth services and
while we have allowed for virtual
check-ins
full telehealth benefits have been
restricted to those living in rural
areas established patients and just for
those brief visits but no longer
Medicare beneficiaries across the nation
no matter where they live will now be
able to receive a wide range of services
via telehealth without ever having to
leave home and these services can also
be provided in a variety of settings
including nursing homes hospitals
outpatient departments and more and
thanks to the leadership of HHS will
also be temporarily relaxing certain
HIPAA requirements so that doctors can
provide telehealth with their own phones
and we'll be using enforcement
discretion when it comes to collecting
co-pays so that cost won't be a barrier
this is a part of our larger efforts
around mitigation and as we are
encouraging Americans to stay home
whenever possible we don't want our
Medicare policies getting in the way and
so consider the implications of this
perhaps an elderly patient with diabetes
needs routine checkup and this has
nothing to do with the corona virus and
so with our new telehealth benefits this
person who's not really who's at risk
for the corona virus doesn't have to
venture outside their home they can talk
to their doctor via Skype and they don't
have to risk exposure to the virus and
they can receive that care from the
safety of their own home it could be
another Medicare recipient who's
experiencing mild flu-like symptoms and
instead of leaving the house and sitting
in a waiting room full of other
vulnerable people they can also receive
advice from their doctor from their home
and this shift is very important for
clinicians and providers who over the
coming weeks will face considerable
strain on their time and resources and
now Medicare patients who don't
absolutely need to come in to an office
won't have to and this allows the
healthcare system to prioritize for care
for those that are more and that have
more needs or in dire need and preserves
protective equipment as well state
Medicaid agencies can also provide
telehealth services without federal
approval and so we're asking all states
to make this available as well and we've
also asked private insurance companies
to expand their telehealth benefits and
make it clear to their providers and
then their members what they cover as
our nation seeks to balance the twin
imperatives of getting Americans the
care that they need during this outbreak
and limiting the spread of the virus the
impact of this historic action simply
cannot be overstated in an emergency
those on the frontlines shouldn't have
to worry about federal rules and red
tape hamstringing them when they need
flexibility above all else we're doing
everything in our power to make sure
that that doesn't happen I also just
want to briefly mention that because of
the president's emergency declaration we
do have the ability to provide a lot of
Medicaid waivers and Florida was the
first state to be approved we were able
to do that in a matter of days thank you
senior citizens go for instructions on
how to do the tillow they should call
their doctor's office and their doctor's
office can tell them how to do that I'm
also you know there may be some of our
Medicare members that may not have
access to equipment so we're asking
family members but to help with this but
also respecting the requirements around
social distancing and if any of those
family members or neighbors have
symptoms they should obviously stay
won't be posting members or so that's
correct I used way to do it if you post
and they can also call our 1-800
Medicare number and they can also get
information those phone lines are open
like dr. Burks well thank you very much
as we talked about earlier this week the
commercial system is rapidly advancing
in the testing capabilities as of today
our public health laboratories meaning
the CDC and the public health labs have
reported out 30 1878 tests so almost
32,000 tests the clinical laboratories
the association of clinical laboratories
have reported out twenty twenty seven
thousand tests and most importantly of
those twenty seven thousand during the
cumulative period of time eight thousand
two hundred of them were yesterday this
is showing the dramatic Grampus the high
throughput comes in we don't have the
numbers this morning from the American
Hospital Association which means all the
individual Hospital laboratories we will
have that up coming in the next day or
so and then ambassador birx will have
this whole process a fixed under with
the legislation that everything will
roll up into a common reporting probably
by the end of next week in terms of our
drive through laboratories again these
are blossoming all over the country by
individual states the ones that we are
heavily involved in and really pushing
equipment to we expect over the next few
days to begin setting up 47 of these in
approximately 12 states the material is
already palletized and being shipped to
the locations most cities have the
specific locations some do not but it's
still going to a central receiving and
we know that we'll be deploying at least
140 commissioned Corps officers about
half of the sites have reported their
requirements about 140 officers will be
going we expect that to go up so this is
going on the way we expect it we did a
trial site yesterday with a full mobile
unit for driving through with full PPE
we had a lot of kinks in the system as
you can expect that's why we do a test
before we go out into the field don't
expect these to be a hundred percent
perfect the moment they come they're
going to be adapted to the state in the
local situation but we're very confident
that
we'll add testing to the already very
robust health care system and commercial
system Thank You mr. president
and this has never been done before and
it sets a great roadmap for future
should we have something like this in
the future I hope we don't but it's
never been done before and they've done
an incredible job and again we're
working with the states and relying on
the states we have to because they they
have its point of sale its point of
sight and we're in I think just about
every instance getting along really well
with the with the states if I could
dr. Brooks if you could say a couple of
words Thank You mr. president
so I think what you've been hearing from
us is to find solutions that are
high-quality and sustainable based on
the front line workers and governor's
request and I those come in on the
governor's call we've been immediately
responsive to those and that's the the
level of red tape and bureaucracy that
we have removed I think that point about
sustainability and quality is very
important because as the president says
we're creating a roadmap for a different
level of functionality for future
pandemics our flu pandemic preparedness
plan was a plan now we're seeing where
we have to revise where we have to
create new avenues of research and new
avenues of work to really ensure that
the need of the American people can be
reached
we were adamant about having a high
quality test based on our commercial
vendors over the next few months you
will begin to see that other tests that
were utilized around the world we're not
of the same quality resulting in false
positives and potentially false
negatives these tests were studied and
studied by the FDA to really ensure that
they are that level of quality and we've
given the states the permission to
ensure that same level of quality now I
wanted to say one minute on the testing
testing should not be used as an
assessment of your risk we're asking
every single American no matter what
your generation from Z and up to X and
millenials in between to really ensure
that you're following these guidelines
we hear every night of people who are
not in work moving that time into bars
and other areas of large gatherings if
we continue with that process we will
fail in containing this virus so every
single generation has a role to play
we're asking our older generation to
stay in their homes and we're asking the
younger generations to support them in
social contacting through videos and
other Skype type functions or just the
simple telephone we're asking the
younger generations to stop going out in
public places to bars and restaurants
and spreading a symptomatic virus onto
countertops and knobs and grocery stores
and grocery carts I heard an innovation
last night and this morning again on the
news I really want to applaud the
private sector who are now creating
senior only shopping times I think
that's extraordinary I think that shows
what America brings and I think other
countries will learn from us about how
to really protect seniors in this type
of way I'm hoping that carries through
to next year when we have our flu
epidemic where we can really have a very
different prototype for a file of the
amount of mortality that we have during
flu that we never talked about anywhere
from 15,000 to 45,000 individuals are
lost every year if we learn how to do
this well and sustain some of those core
changes we can change the way
respiratory viruses not only for this
but the future affect Americans it's a
big thing
a question on the clinical data so we've
had now only 5,000 people test positive
we've had 90 deaths or so when are we
going to know the data of who those
people are who has been infected what
the ages are what the pre-existing
conditions are how serious it was both
for those who have been tested positive
but also those who have died
well you're singing my sheet of music
I'm very data oriented so thank you for
bringing up this issue of data I really
want to applaud HHS we had a discussion
about this several days ago they've made
calls in to Seattle and California to
really understand that and also
importantly to understand how many of
their patients needed ventilators how
many of them needed oxygen support how
many of them needed and what they needed
could we predict early someone who was
going to have a more difficult course
these are all the questions we're asking
right and answering right now we did get
an early report back from Santa Clara
and Seattle we're digesting it we just
got it this morning we're looking at
that carefully because we think that
roadmap is very important to other
communities we have not discussed this
with New York yet we do know from other
countries and that all is available
online that profile you can see that
mortality under 30 is extraordinarily
low the mortality across the board
outside of Wuhan is now settling
somewhere around 0.7 but that should not
be reassuring because it's much higher
in people with pre-existing medical
conditions even if young and people that
are older with pre-existing medical
conditions and so we still want every
American focused on doing what they can
do today to change the course of this
pandemic to making that data public so
we will all know we're committed not
only to making it public but to have a
website that everyone can see in real
time there you are signaling a much more
aggressive posture
toward containment mitigation now in
many states have been very aggressive
but there is a small number of states
that has not have not issued public
guidance to their residents is it
important for the success of the effort
that 100% of the states be forward
leaning on this and if so mr. president
what would be your message to those
states that have not okay so that's why
the vice president and the president
yesterday issued those critical
guidelines as I said just morning on Fox
& Friends you can look at them as with
guidelines you can look at them
requirements and you can look at him as
the president asking every American in
every state to follow those that's why
we put them out at the federal level we
wanted to make sure every American knew
what they could do today to change the
course of this epidemic
I think it's empowering I think it says
all of us have a social responsibility
to each other and that's why we believe
that every mayor and every governor
should be instituting these guidelines
that came from the White House and the
President of the United States and we've
been very tough for those states I know
exactly who you're talking to
we've been very tough in it thank you
you've been telling us for days now that
millions of tests have been sent out so
why have fewer than 60,000 people
actually been tested I think you will
see different numbers this week you
heard just at 8,000 remember all of
these tests the high-speed tests were
approved last Friday last Friday night
and last Thursday night I think if I
could talk to thermo Fisher and the
other groups that have these platforms
out there do not rely on a pull
technology push out those tests because
we can only make them available groups
have to order them so I we've been
talking to thermo Fisher one of the key
platforms to push out tests based on
need and not wait for orders
getting the test out or isn't getting
the test conducted we that's a great
question I know part of it is getting
the test out right now I think the
Admiral and others are working on
getting the the issues related to
getting the test conducted obviously
that does take time he is working on
innovative solutions that are creative
and sustainable that will be a game
changer in testing but we don't have the
data yet this is a critical comparator
can you do it yourself can you actually
sample yourself these these are the
kinds of things we're working on right
now and he's getting the data for us the
governors and the states are doing a lot
of it with even our tests thank you can
you give us a sense of how long these
tough new restrictions will need to be
in place until we start to see the rate
of this virus going down and also can
you speak to this study that as many as
2.2 million people in the United States
could die if there weren't this type of
action by the government taken I think
you know models are models and they're
based on input and they're based on
infectiousness without any controls I
can tell you we've never seen that level
of infections that modeled up to that
2.2 million and mortality so we are
looking at that we are having a
particularly model meeting tomorrow I
think that's really going to be
important I've dealt with a lot of
modelers in my time they're wonderful
people but they all have their favorite
inputs and they all have their favorite
integration functions so we're
evaluating all of those so we can
integrate and create the best model for
the United States based on the best data
and that first set of recommendations
you saw were based on what we could do
today to prevent anything that looks
like that if I could just say one other
thing to the hospitals and dentists out
there things that don't need to be done
over the next two weeks don't get it
done if you're a person with an electric
cert elective surgery you don't want to
go into a hospital right now there's a
lot of distraction
there's a lot of people doing a lot of
other things to save people's lives so
let's all be responsible and cancel
things that we can cancel to really free
up hospital beds in space and then let's
do everything that we can to ensure that
we don't need the ventilators because
we've protected the people who would
have needed to use them the possibility
of more actions like for example
limiting travel within the United States
or it's possible it's possible we'll see
how it goes there's been great
cooperation with local governments
States we'll see how it goes it's going
it's going right now pretty well yeah
[Music]
production supplies we're able to do
that if we have to right now we haven't
had to but it's certainly ready if I
want it we can do it very quickly we've
studied it very closely over two weeks
ago actually
we'll make that decision pretty quickly
if we need it we hope we don't need it
to the extent customs you know when you
say the stage in particular three states
need some help and some states you don't
have two people three people no people
in the case of again West Virginia so
we're looking at it very closely we've
taken it apart fifteen different ways
it's a very difficult thing to do it's a
very big step and if we need that step
we'll take it okay first question a lot
of people have got travelled to places
that are considered hot spots yeah
Caribbean Mexico that sort of thing over
the next few weeks would you recommend
that they follow through these plans I
would just say enjoy your home stay I
would just say right now we we have to
get this problem fixed and then we'll
get back into business real really quick
we'll open up our country we'll open up
our society the world will hopefully
open up we see areas of the world that
are that haven't done well and we see
areas that are doing very well and I
would put us in the category of doing
very well for a country so big I think
that I would recommend that they just
enjoy their living room
go ahead please what do you say to
people who are not heating these
guidelines from the White House and then
also have a question on asymptomatic
doctor I'm not happy with those people
if they're not but you know those people
are being shouted down by other people
they know they're being it's almost like
self policing people went and there are
a couple of instances I guess probably
more than a couple where people are not
happy when they see others doing what
they're not supposed to be doing we have
to get rid of this we have to win this
war
and ideally quickly quickly there's the
longer it takes it's not a good
situation and I'm not even talking about
the economy I'm talking about the lives
of a lot of people yeah please together
I think it's all the work in progress
what President Trump has made clear to
industries around the country is that
we're gonna do whatever it takes we
understand this is an extraordinary
moment in the life of our nation it's
the reason why the president brought in
leaders of the financial sector airline
industry he'll meet with all no
additional industry leaders today in
tourism and hospitality but he has
tasked the Secretary of the Treasury to
work with members of Congress in both
parties to make sure that we construct
the kind of economic support that will
allow those industries to weather the
period of the corona virus and then to
come back stronger than ever before
we've had such incredible I don't know
it's almost the word spirit is the best
way it's like a spirit the banks have
come in and the banks are doing things
that they would have never done they're
working on extensions and lots of things
that they wouldn't have done co-pays
with regard to the insurance companies I
mean for them to be doing what they're
doing you know all about the co-pays
they would have never done that and they
did
they were in my office they I would say
the 11 biggest in this country I guess
probably the 11 biggest of the world the
big ones all the big ones and they they
did things on copay that nobody would be
doing that they wouldn't have done in a
million years but they're doing it
there's a great spirit going on right
down with the country so you went to yes
please doctor pouchy doctor pouchy you
said you like being accused of
overreacting because that is an
indication we may be doing things
necessary to beat this bend the curve
how long do you think it will take for
you to be confident that yes we're
bending the curve or no or not you know
I can't give you a firm number on that
because the dynamics of outbreaks in
some respects are predictable
historically they do this and that you
don't know because this is really
unprecedented I mean of all the
outbreaks that I've been involved with
over the last at least 36 years and then
going historically back we've never had
a situation where the mobilization of
all the different components travel
restrictions internal the containment
mitigation financial assistance public
health assistant testing so we don't
really know but the one thing I do know
I do know that if you look at models
with all of their vice institutes of
models is that when you have input into
the kinds of mitigations and things that
we're doing we're gonna see a hump
instead of a peak I would be really
surprised if all the things that we're
doing and and this is really a
comprehensive approach I was struck as I
was listening to everyone make their
their presentations that you know I'm a
scientist I'm a health person and I'm a
physician who sees patients so I look at
it from one particular standpoint but
what I'm being impressed by is that this
is really a comprehensive thing that has
multiple components different all of
them got to succeed if we're gonna get
to that end point that I've described
multiple times from this podium so I
hope that if everyone does their job
we're gonna be able to give you a number
and say you know
we've seen that inflection and we're
coming down I would hesitate to do it
now to be honest with you because it
might be misleading and I don't want to
be misleading I just want to say one
other thing because I heard dr. Berg say
it and I think we need to say it over
and over again when I was young a long
time ago I felt that I was invulnerable
the way I think many of us feel were
invulnerable and when we're asking the
young people to help us with this
mitigation strategy by staying out of
the bars staying out of the restaurants
really trying to distance yourself don't
get the attitude well I'm young I'm
invulnerable you are well in some
respects you're certainly less
vulnerable than I am however what you
might inadvertently do and I know you
don't want to do that you don't want to
put your loved ones at risk particularly
the ones who are elderly and the ones
who have compromised conditions we can't
do this without the young people
cooperating please cooperate with us
thank you
[Music]
but there is apparently a new study out
of China found that the vast majority of
cases 86% we're untested patients with
mild to no symptoms so what does that
say about the impact of testing and does
it mean that testing should actually go
beyond the sickest patients you know
that question keeps coming up and I'm
not gonna evade the question but I want
to make a point we tend to think that
we're not gonna be able to mitigate or
contain without testing they complement
each other in some respects but they're
separate channels even if we had no
testing we should be doing what we're
doing now the question are asking so I
won't evade it is specifically would it
be important outside of a doctor patient
coming in together of knowing what's out
there what might be under the radar
screen the answer to your question is
yes so let me tell you what the CDC is
doing right now that going out there and
part of their program is to get a feel
for what is there that wasn't initially
thought to be corona virus that was
thought to be something else when you do
that you're also going to get a feel of
what the penetrance is in society so we
are heading with the high throughput
things that you've been hearing about to
get an answer to your question you know
it's possible I mean I know the governor
has been really
I believe doing a really good job of
trying to stay ahead of this 45 days is
not unreasonable you have to be careful
when you get a number you own the number
and then if the number doesn't come out
you're in trouble and that's the reason
why from our standpoint from the federal
government we're talking about a range
so within that range I mean it isn't
like you want to be correct for the sake
of being correct but you don't want to
be Wed to something and then have to
back off
what is it when is the soonest that will
know that these new guidelines are
actually bending the curve or actually
working and is there a point in time
where you you know in the next couple of
weeks where you'll be able to tell the
president more draconian measures are
needed well okay so what's happening I
mean if you look as a metaphor it's kind
of like a race against a virus if left
to its own devices will do this and us
trying to somehow blunt that now you
could see the virus going up and up and
your affect your your work what you're
trying to do may actually be having an
effect but you may not see it because
it'll still be going up and as you're
trying to implement your your
interference with the virus you may not
realize that you actually de fear me and
I'll say wait a minute it's still going
up what's going on you've done nothing
but you don't know whether it would do
this versus that so the answer to your
question it probably would be several
weeks and maybe longer before we know
whether we're having an effect it may be
at the end of the day we'll see a curve
that would have been way way up but I
wouldn't like put us to task every few
days well wait a minute it's going up is
it working or not that would be really
misleading if we do that
and today the Governor of Alabama issued
her own guidelines and it was a
recommendation against gatherings of
twenty five there were more people what
is your recommendation for people of
Alabama people across all of the country
as far as the guidelines that were
announced yesterday by the family
okay so the one thing we don't want to
do is to get hung up on the difference
between ten and twenty five I think you
might agree with that when we give
guidelines they're only guidelines we
sit down we look at the data as dr. Berg
said we're data-driven and we say on
different models ten looks good if
someone wants to do 25 we're not gonna
fault them but if someone wants to come
to us and ask us what we think the best
is we stand by the numbers it isn't
perfect it isn't precise math it's
assumptions and it's data that make you
get your decision in every city in the
country was playing by the same yes of
course but this is the United States of
America there's a lot of free enterprise
there people do their own thing and
quite frankly I don't think there's a
big deal difference between ten and
twenty five we got many many more
important things to worry about than
that difference supply chains and then
talking about preparedness for the
future yesterday Larry Kudlow said that
there was an idea of floating around the
administration to cut taxes for
companies who would be bringing their
supply chains back to the United States
he said he specifically liked immediate
hundred percent right ospa structure is
equipment but he said you've gotten
endorsed that yet what you want to
worsen I really don't have many ideas
that's one of them frankly and we're
looking at creating incentives for
companies not only that type of company
but other companies we're also looking
to help companies such as the airline
industry within the airline industry and
we'll be doing that we will be doing
that this is not their fault and they've
been very understanding actually and
we're gonna be helping them we will have
a very powerful airline industry and
it'll start up as soon as this is over
we'll we'll have those we'll have those
planes ready to go so we have to help
them during the short term with very
important
have you taken a look at some of these
models such as the Imperial College
London model that kind of poses a very
difficult choice whether it's shutting
down society or overwhelming the
healthcare stuff is that something that
we look at every model we've relied on
the very talented people and there's no
better team that the people be behind me
and I will say that all of the people
that have done those models are all in
constant touch with dr. Burks and Tony
and everybody that you've been hearing
so much from over the last couple of
weeks we've looked at we've looked at
many different models and the model we
have is we want to save a lot of lives
we want to save a lot of lives if we get
too steep in that curve you're going to
lose a lot of lives perhaps
unnecessarily now we're going to find
out if everything has a risk we're going
to see but if people do what we're
telling them to do what we're asking
them to do you're gonna see the saving
of a lot of lives now Boris in UK
yesterday you saw what happened it
looked like they were going to get
different way but that he went away of
similar I guess simpler I don't know
exactly but I would say we had a
conversation yesterday similar to what
we're doing so a lot of people seem to
think this is going to be we are we are
looking to save the maximum number of
lives everything else is going to come
back a life is never going to come back
but everything else our economy it's
gonna come roaring back you're gonna
know we're gonna know we're gonna all
know that day if somebody was asking
about the day when will you know when
will you know we're gonna know all of a
sudden we're gonna say wow that's
looking good that's looking good that's
looking good and we're going to be on
the other side of the curve and that's a
day that we look forward to
now with the time to implement these
much more stringent social distancing
measures oh I don't think so this is
where we're going I really think from
the beginning this is where we were
going this is what we had in mind
we were just we're just going step by
step that was the next step the next
logical step as dr. Fauci said and I
think very importantly one of the most
important things when you write the
history of this was the fact that we
closed it down to China and Europe but
in particular China we closed it down to
China the source very very early very
very early far earlier than even the
great professionals wanted to do
prompted part of that was their shift
until I didn't think I mean I have seen
that where people actually liked it but
I didn't feel different I've always
known this is a this is a real this is a
pandemic I felt it was a pandemic long
before it was called a pandemic all you
had to do is look at other countries I
think now it's in almost a hundred and
twenty countries all over the world no
I've always viewed it as very serious
there was no difference yesterday from
days before I feel the tone is similar
but some people said it wasn't
genomic advisor said almost 100% chance
of a recession you see it that way it
could be I mean I don't think in terms
of recession I think in terms of getting
it out because when we're finished with
the virus we will win we will win and
when that victory takes place our
economy is going to go through the roof
it is so pent up it is so built up it is
so ready to go in a in an upward
direction but we have to knock out this
enemy this is a really tough enemy but
we have to knock out all of us that's
all of us so I don't think in terms of
recession not recession it's words we
have to knock out this and we will have
an economy I actually think we'll have
an economy like we've never had before
it's all pent up I think the question
about about the actions that the
president authorized beginning in
January when he took the unprecedented
step of suspending all travel from China
have the efforts to issue travel
advisories for portions of Italy and
South Korea and then to begin screening
all the passengers the efforts regarding
suspending travel for Europe and what
went into effect at midnight last night
adding the UK and Ireland - that have
all been informed by the experts that
are surrounding us what the president's
asked us to do from the very beginning
as dr. Burks and dr. pouchy often say is
let's follow the data bring the
president the best options in response
to what is actually happening on the
ground but but with regard to
yesterday's 15 day slow the spread plan
our team unanimously brought to the
president these very strong
recommendations for every American
because we truly believe we are at a
point in this epidemic in our country
when we can reduce the number of people
that actually are exposed to or contract
the coronavirus but will continue to
bring the best data the best evidence
and the best recommendations frankly of
the best health experts in the world and
the president will continue to make
decisions that put the health of America
first
in other words reduce the number of
people that die that's what we're trying
to do and when you do the steep curve a
lot of people are going to
a lot of people you know the worst ever
they say 1918 and I don't have to go
into the numbers but there were
unbelievable numbers had they known and
had they done what we had now it would
have been a very much different story it
would still be tragic but it would have
been a very much different but that was
that was the one that people write about
that was an incredible that was an
incredible pandemic like we haven't seen
but we have we have done something that
I hope hopefully we will all have made
the right moves we're all in this
together
including you and we want to see fair
press and and I tell you what it's been
generally speaking I think it's been
it's been a great thing to see it's been
very very the the getting along with
Democrats getting along with Republicans
for the Democrats themselves there's
been a lot of spirit there's been a lot
of things happening that I haven't seen
happen in the first almost now three and
a half years it's been very nice to see
that's one of the good things but what
really the good thing is we have to
knock it out we have to win and we want
to keep that slope as low as possible
because that's a lot of lives in there
mr. president this is not a huge impact
on China's economy as well have you ever
seen any indication from officials there
that they're going to have trouble
meeting the purchase agreements part of
the phase one deal particularly in
agricultural buy well they need our
product very badly and no I haven't
received any with good relationship with
China I have not received anything to
that no we have a signed agreement
they're going to be buying and they have
been buying a lot of product yeah
over text and she talked about certain
options that are available to the United
States here that happens including VA
hospitals right Department of Defense
medical treatment facilities and even
hospital ships at what point do you tap
in to those options well I'll know the
point and by speaking with Governor
Cuomo and other governor's we're gonna
know the points gonna be different for
New York that it's gonna be from you
know Iowa or from Idaho or from West
Virginia frankly or for you know it's
it's different
New York has got a big problem the state
of Washington as a big problem
California has some big problems
everyone's doing a good job but we're
gonna know when it will be and I believe
it'll be more spot that it will be it's
not going to be the whole thing it's
going to be spots there are some hot
spots that are in trouble big trouble
and there are other areas that are in no
trouble at all they watch it on
television they don't know you know it's
just not affecting them and that's
they're lucky they're lucky but there
are areas of the country that don't have
much of a problem and some that don't
have any problem they're not gonna have
a problem with hospitals but somewhere
is like New York California of state of
Washington they're going to have some
difficulty and when we see that coming
we're going to be and there were already
making preparation for it
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida your
trade adviser Peter Navarro have been
recommending an executive order that
would ensure that the raw materials for
pharmaceuticals and medical devices are
manufactured here in the United States
we were getting some indications last
week that you were close to signing this
executive order can you tell us what
looking at different things John I don't
want to say exactly right now China has
been sending us everything we need but
we're we're looking at some alternatives
yes we are looking for alternatives and
we have other places Ireland does a lot
of work for us you know that in that
world in the pharma world a very
tremendous producer and we are looking
to bring a lot more back home and I've
been excuse me you know me for a long
time I've been talking about this for
many years long before I decided to run
for president I've been talking about
this and we have to be able to take care
of our country and
that was one of the many things on the
list so we'll be talking about it but we
are we are discussing it in Marcos very
much involved and Peter is very much and
a lot of people are involved and a lot
of people feel that way but we'll be
discussing as opposed its non-citizens
are you considering not to the United
States the United States of course are
you considering closing the land borders
in the United States and also you Canada
has not closed it to the United States
so we're working very closely with
Canada and but they have not closed it
they have closed it to the world but
they have not closed it to the United in
the u.s. land border I don't want to say
that but we are discussing things with
Canada and we're discussing things with
Mexico quite honestly and again the
relationship is outstanding with both
outstanding we just signed our deal u.s.
MCA and the relationship is very strong
criticized using the phrase Chinese
virus how do you feel about that you
gave to continue using that phrase well
China was putting out information which
was false that our military gave this to
them that was false and rather than
having an argument I said I have to call
it where it came from it did come from
China so I think it's a very accurate
term but no I didn't appreciate the fact
that China was saying that our military
gave it to them our military did not
give give it to anybody phrase crazy
stigma no I don't think so no I think
saying that our military gave it to them
creates a stigma
today what specific help are you going
to offer to them well we're gonna help
they need help look let's face it you
know they go from having record-breaking
years this is the third year of
record-breaking year's travel and
tourism airlines everything they were
doing record numbers ordering new planes
building new hotels everything was
really hunky-dory and then one day we
hear about this rumour in China and then
we find out it's much more than a rumor
and then all of a sudden we make a great
decision to close it up early it would
be a whole different world we a whole
different world but we make a decision
to close it up to China and all of a
sudden tourism and and then we close it
up to Europe which you know people never
heard of this before I'm not sure that
that's ever been done I know that when I
made the decision to close that the
China people told me that's never been
done before but it was a great decision
we make good decisions so I'll tell you
my best decision the people behind me
are total for us all over the world
they're respected dr. Burks Anthony
who's become where's it become a major
television star for all the right
reasons no he's just so professional so
good the people that we have working
here had been incredible and they're
totally respected the Admiral has been
incredible having to do with the testing
incredible and he's viewing this as
testing also for the future we're
building a platform when we took over
this platform first thing the Admiral
said was this wasn't that designed for
what we're talking about millions of
people it wasn't and it's nobody's fault
it's not like who could have ever
predicted anything like this but we
broke it down and it's really gonna be
an incredible system and it is now a
great system I just I just want to say
these are incredible people standing
behind me they're the most respected in
the world every country that you've
mentioned today so far has called them
and they call them all the time for
advice there's nobody better than work
we have
why didn't we see dr. Redfield the last
couple days tell you he's doing a good
job we're very happy with him mr.
president yesterday we were being told
that the payroll tax was gonna comprise
the lion's share of fiscal stimulus
ready we also had the markets fall quite
dramatically yesterday and we did that
and did that inform your decision what
in what in what made you make that
change and when did you make that well I
didn't wreck it change well look at the
payroll tax and we're looking at various
other forms of getting money to people
and the payroll tax is something that
I've always liked problem is it does
take a period of time you know months
before they really see something and we
don't really have months in terms of
people living you know a lot of these
you have you have people that work on
tips yet people in our it's a large
number of people it's a tremendous who
would think this right but and they do
nicely they work very hard but they work
on tips we have to take care of our
people we don't want to have people
suffering during this period it wasn't
their fault that this thing all of a
sudden was upon us so we're looking at
various we're also looking at payroll
tax you know it's possible it's also
possible we'll do a percentage of
payroll tax and then other things but
we'd like to be able to get money to
people you know we're very lucky our
country is doing so well we can do this
and we can do it easily but we have to
do it and I have to say Mitch McConnell
if you look at Mitch and Kevin and the
whole group and it's been it's been
incredible how they're reacting how
Congress is reacting how whether it's
the House or Senate how they're they're
moving and I'm talking about Democrats
and Republicans but we've had tremendous
leadership meetings and they want to see
it done right and they do want to go big
I think going big is important I don't
think we want to go up there every day
with a different idea a different
concept oh gee let's worry about the
airlines let's do this one you have a
big problem with the cruise ship
industry it's a industry that we're
setting all sorts of Records two months
ago that all of a sudden
there's nobody on the ships okay so we
have to help these these are great in
these are going to be taking care of
people and passengers and and for years
to come and paying tremendous taxes
tremendous taxes for years to come so we
have to make sure that this is done yes
yes mr. president what you refer to just
a short while ago about politics of a
near address to the nation you said we
have to put politics aside stop the
partisanship and unified together this
morning you criticize the Democratic
governor of Michigan yesterday was the
Democratic governor of New York you've
attacked Obama you talked to be attacked
fine in fact every day except one since
that address
you've lashed out at a Democratic leader
are you gonna set the example they only
do that one I have to respond
I watched her on television she said
something that was false and therefore I
did do that and I will continue to do
that if they're not gonna play fair
because you know they have the media on
their side I don't I just have me and if
they're not gonna play fair I'm gonna do
that if they are gonna play fair there's
gonna be nobody there's gonna be nobody
better than Donald Trump in terms of
bipartisanship but if if they're going
to say things that are false like the
story that was written yesterday a lot
of people I don't know somebody I think
I know who but they taped the conference
call that I had with the governor's it
was a good call it was fine I assume
somebody's going to tape it they handed
it to various people one of it was the
New York Times and The New York Times
chose to write totally inaccurately
about it it was a disgraceful thing was
bad journalism but you know they do a
lot of bad journalism but we respond to
that and actually people get it people
get it no I want it to be bipartisan and
nobody's going to be better than me but
when they attack me or the people these
incredible people behind me I'm not
gonna let them get away with that I
can't do that okay how about one or two
more questions go ahead please
which clients was was the next natural
step there's the next natural step after
that a national well you can do a
national lockdown hopefully we're not
gonna need that we think of everything I
mean we have every idea that you
mentioned we've thought of and you know
it's a very big step that's a step that
I mean in one sense would work it's a
very big step it's something we talked
about but we haven't decided to do that
place that would be the determining
factors for you to take that action it
would have to get to a level I just
don't think it's gonna be an action that
we're going to take I don't think I'll
talk but Anthony all of the people
standing behind me would get together in
a room plus some additional x' and we
would make a decision but I don't think
that's a step that we're going to be
paid one more question you didn't have
one did you come on provide financial
assistance to Boeing and airplane
suppliers like GE we're looking at that
we're certainly looking at Boeing Boeing
got hit hard in many different ways
Boeing never had a problem for four
years they were they were an incredible
and it was unthinkable what happened
with respect to both unthinkable
probably I would consider it the
greatest company in the world prior to a
year ago now they get hit in 15
different ways and they have different
management I've met the new people
running Boeing I think it's going to be
outstanding but yeah we have to protect
Boeing we have to absolutely help help a
Boeing they were doing a job they were
getting it was coming along well and
then all of a sudden this hits so
obviously when the airlines aren't doing
well Boeing is not going to be doing
well so we'll be helping Boeing in on
what John was saying you call for people
to leave politics evidence Joe Biden's
dead the World Health Organization
offered testing kits that they had
available to the United States and to
give it to us now we refused it we
didn't want to buy them PolitiFact says
the wh should have never made that offer
can you tell us well that's what I'm
gonna let I'm gonna let Tony answer that
question or some whoever is best at
answering that but I do have to say when
you talk about politics I watch the
debate
not too exciting but what they said
about me and we've done a great job when
you talk about not not being bipartisan
what they said about me and if you look
at swine flu the the whole thing and I
guess it was 2009 and what they did and
the mistakes they've made they were
terrible there were horrific mistakes
17,000 people died and I'll be honest
they shouldn't be criticizing because
we've done a fantastic job the only
thing we haven't done well is to get
good press we've done a fantastic job
but it hasn't been appreciated even the
the closing down of the borders which
had never been done and not only did we
close them closed Murli the press
doesn't like writing about it so we've
done a poor job when press relationships
and you know I guess I don't know who to
blame for that I don't know maybe I can
blame maybe I can blame ourselves so
that I will blame ourselves but I think
we've done a great job I think we've
done a poor job in terms of press
relationship but let me have somebody
answer your question I tried to cover
this in the answer when I talked about
quality of kids and our quality analysis
runs through the FDA so all of these
platforms we have asked people to submit
and we've asked States to quality
control so I mean this anybody could
submit their tests to us we don't buy
tests that haven't been quality
controlled and they show us the data
they show us the data upfront or show us
the data after they've been running them
because quality testing for our American
people is paramount to us it doesn't
help to put out a test where 50% or 47%
are false positives imagine what that
would mean to the American people
imagine their level of concern now and
telling people that they're false
positive we take this same approach to
HIV imagine telling someone they were
positive to HIV and they weren't so that
is our bottom line the customer the
American people first and so any of
these groups can submit their testing
kits through our regulatory processes
but without that and without a plan we
are not going to accept tests that have
not been studied by us good answer good
answer would you have something I'm just
gonna emphasize a little bit more on
that when I became involved in the
testing world I call as senior officials
at the WH o as I could find to
understand what the situation was and as
far as I can tell from sources that
should know no one ever offered a test
that we refused what I heard - this was
a this is a research grade test right
research grade test that was never
submitted was not approved not submitted
to the FDA that was supplied in tens of
thousands of quantities to a hundred
countries in the world okay so I think
there's a lot that people are saying
about this this is based on rumor and
myth nothing was offered that we refused
it was a research test that was not
approved and again there was a small
number that we have greatly surpassed in
a very short period of time so no but
when nothing was offered number two it
was a bad test otherwise it was
wonderful listen thank you very much